
Part 1: Showcase your Professional Written Communication Style

1.  Email to your manager requesting time off:
hey adrian i need thiz thurs & fri of. i totes need a break from werk. 
￿ thx-alexa
Rewrite this example here:

Hello Adrian,
I am sending you this email requesting Thursday and Friday
of this week off. I am needing to take some personal time off

Thank you,
Alexa.

2. Email to a coworker who likes their information short and sweet:
Hey Alan, How are you? I’m good. My weekend was soooo much fun. 
I totally need a weekend from my weekend....if you know what i mean!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
i need yur help w/ a project. Its totally taking up toooooooooooooo much of my time. 
For example I dont know what jen wants and I feel like its way to much to tell me to do.
 I mean its Monday!!!!!! If ya want ta get some coffee I’m soooo ready for a break & some cool catchin up.
 BTW-the project is supposed to bee about writing a sales pitch to a client we sorta want to grab. Anyways ,ttl. 
Rewrite this example here: 


Hello Alan, 
Hope your doing well,  I was wanting to know if you would help me
with a project. I have put a lot of time on this and think I need some extra hands. If interested the 
project is to writ a sales pitch to a potiental client.
hope to hear from you soon.

Thanks.


3.  Request to a former boss asking for a reference (tip: include examples of your past work to help jog her memory and a deadline to spur her along):
Dede – hey! Long time no talk. I’m sure you’re busy and so am I! I am going for a new job and wanted to see if you can write me a super quick letter of reference. 
You were awesome to work for last year but now I’m tryin to move on to bigger and better thingz! Thanks so much!!

Good Morning Debe,
This is Urusla Netherland I use to work for you about 3 years ago as a Unit Coordinator on 3 sw. I am messaging you to ask if you would give me a reference, 
I am applying for a new positon to further my career. I would appreciate it.

Thank you, 
Ursula Netherland.




4.  Follow up email from a face-to-face department meeting:

You just attended a staff meeting where you are collaborating 
on several projects with teammates. While you all “agreed” or 
at least nodded your heads when it came time to decide on milestones
 and deliverable deadlines you want to be sure you are all on the same page. 
 In the space below write your follow-up email to your teammates 
 that includes a summary of what you discussed and the milestones 
 that you all “agreed” upon in your face-to-face meeting. 
 To get you started here are some sample milestones and dates:
 -New client push – need to reach out to at least 5 new clients by March 5.
 -New client sign-on – need to have at least 3 new clients signed on for business by March 31. 
-New client website draft #1 due by April 30-New client website launch date May 31.

Good afternoon everyone,
I'm following up on the meeting this morning. Was the the break down of this project understandable
to everyone? We are needing to sign-on these three clients by March the 31st. If there are any 
confusions to who is doing which client or the deadline please contact me.

Thank you.